.
- The girl I'm dating, Renee,
she's transferring to
Madrid for her job.
I can't go with you.
- Sky would have been
the limit for us.
- Herrmann,
how serious are you
about renting
that apartment out?
- I thought
that you and Severide were--
- We are,
but we moved in
and we skipped
the dating part.
I'm just starting to
think it was a mistake.
- I don't care where you live.
Wherever you are,
it's where I want to be.
- There's this girl
I went to high school with.
She's married.
She said she's...
getting a hotel room
and that we should meet there.
- You cannot go through
with this.
You're too good a guy.
♪
- Come on, let's go!
- Come on, boys, defense!
Stay on him!
C'mon, ref!
Alex!
Move it around out there!
- Does this guy
have an off
- Hey! This isn't
a first date.
Get on top of them!
On top, on top!
- Enough already.
- C'mon, ref!
Call the damn foul!
- Paul! Shut your trap
or you're out of here.
- Our team's playing like
a pack of Girl Scouts,
Herrmann.
- You could drill them
a little more on defense.
- He's drilling them fine,
thanks.
- They're losing by 12.
- Hey, everybody!
Shut up! Sit down!
Or we're going
to forfeit this game.
Got it?
- Seriously, it was less like
youth rec basketball
and more like a feeding frenzy.
- I thought you swore off
kids' sports forever
after that hockey fiasco
a few years back.
- The kids are
never the problem.
It's the parents.
- Do you include yourself
in that?
- It's the other parents.
- Mm-hmm.
- Hey, have you guys seen
my money clip?
all: No.
- Hey, where were you
last night?
I didn't hear you come in.
- Oh, I got stuck, uh,
at Leon's house,
helping him
put together furniture.
- I had to watch
a fixer-upper marathon alone.
- Yeah.
Yeah, we just had
a bunch of beers,
watching the game,
so I just crashed on his couch.
- Well, maybe that's
where your money clip is.
- Hey.
You've been approved for
a new Visa,
and Value Savers thinks
you're a Swedish guy
named Stell Stellakidd.
You know you can just
throw these away, right?
- Nope, gonna keep
handing them to you
as punishment
for moving out on me.
- Oh, you miss
having my hair ties
all over
your kitchen counter.
- I miss you.
- Then ask me out on a date.
A real one.
- Fine.
Swift and Sons,
you and me,
tomorrow night.
- Squad Three, Ambulance 61,
single vehicle accident at
659 West Cermak.
- Table will be reserved under
Stell...
Stellakidd.
♪
- Guy didn't see us.
I caught some water when
we swerved out of the way.
That spun us.
- Bee sting,
nothing too serious.
But Jamie got thrown.
You okay?
- I can't move my wrist.
- Paramedic's banged up.
Looks like she broke her wrist.
- The side door's jammed.
If you can pull up
a little bit,
we can open up the back.
- Yeah.
- I tried,
but she didn't budge.
Think the drive shot's busted.
Cruz, get this door open.
- On it.
- You--you're not going
to break the door, are you?
Can't you just tow it out
and go through the back?
I'm responsible for this thing.
- Hook up a winch
Let's do this fast.
- Copy that.
- Okay, all right,
just hang in there.
- Hey! Hey!
Your patient!
- Guys, we can't wait.
We got to get in there now!
♪
His IV must have blown.
His throat's swelling.
We need a tube.
♪
- Good!
- Hold him down.
- I can't.
- Hold him down!
- I got him.
Okay.
- Damn, he's unconscious.
- You're in.
Hey, waiting to take that door
off almost cost you a life.
Can't believe we considered
going private
for even a minute.
- You'll wish
you'd gone private
once Commissioner Staton's
gone.
Fire commissioner's taking
a big FEMA post.
Word is the whole CFD's
getting handed over
to some desk jockey.
Thanks for the gauze.
- Looks like the rig
is still out.
They might have
caught another call,
but I can give him a message.
- Okay, thanks.
Could you tell him
Delia came by?
- Sure.
- I'm sorry.
I'm a friend of Joe's,
from high school.
- Okay.
Yeah, I'll let him know.
- Thanks.
Oh, also...
Could you give this
to him?
He dropped it on
the floor last night.
- Yeah, sure.
- Let him know
I didn't take any.
Thanks.
♪
- Yeah.
Yeah?
What, you think
it's for sure?
All right, Cal.
Thanks.
- Landry says
Deputy Commissioner Nelson
has the inside track
on the job.
- He came up through
administration.
Guy's never crawled
a hallway in his life.
- His big thing is efficiency,
doing more with less.
- Which is just corporate talk
for four-man trucks
and forced retirement.
- Fewer supplies.
- Older gear.
- I think the best thing we can
do right now is to stay calm.
I've heard the same rumors
as you,
but, so far,
that's all that they are.
So instead of getting worked up
about things that
are beyond our control,
let's just stick to our work.
- Sure thing, Chief.
- Yeah, Chief.
Excuse me.
- Hey!
Hey.
Everything okay?
- I don't know.
How's Leon's couch?
- Delia came by.
- Brett, listen--
- She's married, Joe.
- I-I know.
And I know that you said
I shouldn't see her,
but it is more complicated
than that--
- It's not complicated at all.
You lied to me.
- I'm sorry.
I shouldn't have done that.
- The Joe Cruz that I know,
the one pre-Delia--
he doesn't lie
to his best friends.
And he doesn't cheat.
What happened to that guy?
♪
- Oh, this day is about
to get interesting.
- Her name's Renee.
♪
- Hi, Kelly.
.
- After all that back
and forth to New York,
I just kind of figured that
it was time to settle down,
at least for my son's sake.
Nicholas is his name.
He's a great kid, too.
He just makes me laugh
all the time.
And it's just me
and him, so...
He's a real mama's boy.
- Well, he sounds great.
- Part of why I moved back
was to take the lead
in a pro bono case
that my law firm
is handling for the CFD
involving a fire
in an oil refinery.
So, I'm thinking,
"Who is the smartest,
"most knowledgeable
firefighter,
"with just enough
rugged good looks
who could sway a jury?"
- Look, I don't know that
I have time to help...
- Two firefighters
were injured.
We're doing everything
that we can
to help take care of them.
We can work around
your schedule
and there's a stipend involved.
The--all I'm asking
is that
you take a look
at what I've pieced together,
and if you think
you can help, great.
And if you can't...
say no more.
I know I have--
I have zero right
to ask after...
After what happened before.
But I could really
use some help.
And I trust your expertise.
- Hey.
So this is not the Renee
that he was engaged to.
- Worse.
I wasn't crazy about her
when they were dating,
but after they broke up,
she came back
and she told Severide
she was carrying his baby,
even though she knew
it was someone else's.
- Yeah.
Shay did the math,
Severide caught on,
and that was finally the end.
- Well, until now!
- Yeah, but...
Truly, he--he never
looked back.
It was like a hard
and fast line.
- Hey.
Figure out what was
going on before with Brett?
- Brett is furious at me
over this Delia thing.
- I warned you about all this,
all these feelings
with Brett.
- This is not about
me and Brett.
This is about me and Delia.
- No, it's not.
It's about why you're
really throwing yourself
into this mess with your
married high school girlfriend.
It all comes back to Brett,
which I specifically
told you to forget about.
- Look, please,
don't get all up in my head
about this, all right?
This has nothing to do
with Sylvie.
I mean Brett.
You're wrong.
- Commissioner Staton is here.
He just walked right up
that apron
and into this firehouse.
- We gotta clean this place up.
What was that?
- Relax, 51,
this isn't an inspection.
- Commissioner.
Good to see you.
Matt Casey.
- Captain.
- Yeah.
Otis, go get the chief.
So, uh, what can we do for you?
- I'm just making the rounds,
going house to house.
I know there's a lot
of scuttlebutt out there.
Feel you all deserve
to hear it directly from me.
- Commissioner Staton.
- Chief Boden.
I was just telling your people
here about my new job
at FEMA.
They've asked me to serve
as the US fire administrator.
- Congratulations.
- Indeed.
- Thank you.
The mayor's got a list
of very qualified candidates
to replace me.
I'm going to do what I can
to help steer that process.
I want to make sure
I leave this department
in the hands of someone
who loves it as much as I do,
who's going to go to bat
for our firefighters
and paramedics.
- That's good to hear.
- So, do you love this guy
or what, huh?
Best battalion chief
in the city.
- You got that right,
commissioner!
- How about a tour
of the place, Chief?
It's been too long since
I visited 51.
- You got it.
Right this way.
- All right.
- Hey.
- Brendan's mom
called me twice today,
saying she's taking
him off the team.
Then I ran into Gina Haskins
at the grocery store,
and she gave me an earful.
- Everyone's just fed up
with Paul Colannino
and I can't blame them.
I'll reach out to Paul, eh,
give him a talking to.
- I'm sorry to dump
this on you.
- It's fine.
All right.
- Mm.
- All right.
- Okay...
Here's what I've been thinking.
Tell me if I'm way
off base here, but...
I think Boden should throw
his hat into the ring...
For commissioner.
- That's a pretty big jump
from battalion chief.
- But it's happened before.
And you saw him with
Commissioner Staton today.
He reveres Boden.
- That probably had more to do
with the recommendation
that Grissom wrote for him.
- Before Gris backed out
of his plans for retirement,
he wanted Boden to take over
as deputy district chief.
- That just makes my point.
Boden's an up-and-comer.
- But the mayor appoints
the next commissioner
and he's already got
a list of names.
- So, remember the mayor's aide
Boden saved from
that hotel fire last year?
Maybe he can get Boden's name
added to the list?
- Okay,
but that's a political process
and we both know that Boden
doesn't do politics.
- That's why we need
to do it for him.
Work our contacts,
drum up support.
It's a little crazy.
And truth is
it's better for both of us
if Boden never leaves 51.
He's the only reason
Dawson and I
can work in the same house
and he's helped you out
of more than one jam
with the brass.
- There's no one
who does more for his own.
But...
The whole department
could benefit from that.
- That's what I'm saying.
I'm willing to give it
a shot...
if you are.
- Okay.
Let's go for it.
- The door's are jammed tight,
and we can hear
people screaming inside.
- I'm telling you,
I thought I was going to die
in that ballroom.
- And you might have
if Boden hadn't brought up
the hydraulic ram.
That's how he got you out.
- Saved us all.
Dozens of us.
- Even if we get
Boden's name out there...
how do we know he's gonna
make the kind of deals
he needs to land the job?
- He probably won't.
It's just not in his blood.
But if you ask me,
that's exactly the kind of guy
the department needs.
- He's got my vote.
- The CFD needs leadership
that understands
the rank and file,
someone with
actual on the ground
experience.
- Boden's a-a real hero
and a hell of a leader.
But can he run
an entire department?
That's a different skill set.
- You're right.
So let me tell you about
the time Boden took on
a corrupt real estate tycoon
who was committing
an arson for profit scam.
.
- Great.
Now I got to meet Colannino
at Molly's tonight.
Hey, you gonna be there?
- Ugh, I'm not sure yet.
I've got something
I'm supposed to do--
I-I mean..
I said
I would do it.
But I don't know.
I've been thinking about it
and--
- I was asking Otis.
He's on
the bar-tending schedule.
- Oh.
♪
Don't be mad at me.
- I'm not.
- Brett.
- I'm not, I mean it.
I shouldn't have yelled
at you before.
It's your life.
You're a grown up.
I have no right to give you
a hard time.
You can do whatever you want.
♪
- Oh, okay.
Cool.
♪
Thanks.
- Hey.
I'm the worst.
I totally forgot
that I have to open tomorrow.
But I'm sure we'll find some
way to see each other.
- Hey, so, um, listen...
Renee...
- Yeah, Renee.
- The only reason why
she came back is she wants
help with a legal case.
It's nothing.
- Well, if you want to do it,
it's fine.
- I don't know.
- Look, I'm serious.
If it's a good deal,
take it.
I just want to spend
more time together.
- Yeah, me too.
- Hey, Paul.
- Hi, Danny.
- Come on in.
- Herrmann.
- All right.
- Hey, got your message.
What's going on?
- We both know
that you're being that guy,
the dad who gets too involved
in his kid's game
and pisses off everybody.
- You know what--
- Hey! They're just a bunch
of kids, all right?
So, firefighter
to firefighter.
I need you to step back,
I need you to keep your butt
on the bleachers,
and keep your mouth zipped.
I ain't asking here, Paul.
- Look...
I wasn't there so much
for my older son,
between the department
and the side job.
The kid,
he's 18 now.
In a bad way,
barely talks to me.
So when I see how much Alex
is into basketball...
I've been shooting hoops
with him every night.
And he loves it.
He loves it.
So, you know, maybe--
maybe I'm putting
a little bit too much on it,
trying to make it more
than what it is
so I don't...
fail him,
like I did his brother.
I don't know.
But...
But this is all
I've got with him.
♪
- Just keep the theatrics
to a minimum, okay?
Can you do that?
- I'll try, Herrmann.
I-I promise.
- Yeah.
- All right.
♪
- Hey.
- You look good.
- You look better.
So...
Are you
freaking out a little?
Because I am freaking out.
- Yeah.
I'm freaking out.
- I know.
It's like, when I saw you
the other day
and then being with you...
I didn't have to think twice.
It felt right,
didn't it?
- Yeah, it did.
- Then afterward...
- Maybe the best thing
to do is for us
to put the brakes
on this for now.
- Maybe it is.
But we are already here.
Maybe we can have
one drink first...
Spend a few minutes...
Not freaking out...
Together.
I'm so sorry, Delia.
I...
♪
It has been great
seeing you again.
♪
But I need to go.
- Oh yeah, but I--
.
- Ow! Okay.
Seriously, I can do this.
Do you have 18 months
formal paramedic training?
- Okay, it's not an IV.
It's just a bag of peas.
I got it, I got it.
Well, I guess it goes without
saying, you were right.
- Hmm, actually,
I think it should be said.
I was an idiot.
- You were.
- Look.
I hate it
when you get mad at me.
But just for the record...
I hate it even more
when you don't.
Please, don't
just give up on me like that.
- As much as I might want to,
I never could.
♪
- Imagine my surprise when
the calls started coming in,
asking if I was really putting
myself up for commissioner.
I mean, how the hell
does that happen?
Then I told myself, no.
My people wouldn't
go around my back
and embarrass me
by begging for favors
on my behalf,
because that would be
an absolute breach of trust.
So please...
Help me figure out
what could possibly
be going on.
- We didn't mean to go
behind your back, Chief.
- And yet you did.
- Only because we knew
that you wouldn't
put yourself out there.
- That's right. I wouldn't.
- It was my idea, Chief.
- All right, the thing is,
people in the city respect you.
And it's because of something
you've taught us since day one.
You get respect
not just by earning it,
by giving it.
That's why we would
follow you anywhere,
and why we think
others would too.
I know you've been feeling
like you don't have
anything left to teach us,
but...
I'm telling you.
You do.
And you should be teaching
from a higher perch,
where every firefighter
in Chicago can benefit from it.
Anyway...
That's all we were thinking.
♪
- Okay.
- So when you said
you had a few documents?
- Oh, well, believe me,
to a lawyer,
this--this is a few.
Um, okay, so, like I said,
you don't
have to commit to the case.
Just, you know,
just take a look
and see if you find
anything interesting and...
If you do, then I'd love
to have you on board.
- Okay.
- Oh, Nicholas, honey,
come here, come here.
I'm so sorry.
- Mama!
I couldn't
find a sitter.
- It's fine.
Don't touch anything.
- Bringing the kid in
is a super ballsy move.
- Probably shouldn't
have moved out.
- Truck 81, Engine 51,
Squad 3, Ambulance 61...
Auto-body shop fire.
16th and Loomis.
♪
- Battalion 25 to Main,
give me a still and box alarm.
- Copy that, Battalion 25.
- One of the cars they were
working on caught fire
and they couldn't get an
extinguisher on it fast enough.
- All but one, Julio.
Junior mechanic.
No one's seen him.
- That roof is gonna come down.
We better find him fast.
Okay.
We have one more inside.
Truck 81, primary search
through the front door.
Squad 3, recon the back.
See if you can find him there.
- Mouch, Otis,
raise the aerial.
Kidd, you're with me.
We search left.
Herrmann, find a partner,
go right.
- Engine 51, 37, get two hose
lines through the front door.
Cover out search teams.
The fire is in the trusses.
You have five minutes max.
Stick together.
Let's go, let's go, let's go.
♪
- Hey. You gonna yell
at me again if we do this?
- Nah, you're good.
♪
I got nothing. You?
- Zero.
- Fire department, call out.
It's getting too hot
down here.
- Even if we do find him,
he'd never survive this.
Fire department!
Call out!
- Herrmann, report.
- Right hand side is
still negative, Chief, but
we're pushing through the rear.
- You're running out of time.
- Hey, give me one more minute.
This kid's got to be here
some place.
♪
These bow trusses
are out rolling.
- Squad Three, report.
- Rear entrance is lit up,
Chief--we can't get in.
[creaking,
glass breaking]
♪
- Battalion 25
to all fire companies,
evacuate the building
immediately.
- Somebody!
Help!
Right there.
- Got him.
Go!
♪
- Come on.
Go!
- Not yet.
Herrmann,
are you coming?
- Finding our way out.
Go.
Colannino, where'd you go?
Colannino!
♪
- Hey!
- Okay, we got him.
- Good save.
- Oh, God.
- He went back for us.
I got to get him, chief.
- It's too unstable.
- No, no, he couldn't
have gone far.
I got to look.
- Herrmann!
♪
.
- Hold the cannonS.
Go.
- Hey, I got him!
♪
I got him.
Hey.
I'm here, Paul.
♪
- Medics.
- Copy, on our way.
- Okay.
- He's not breathing.
- Hey, Paul!
Paul!
Paul, come on!
Come on!
- His pupils are blown.
- Come on!
Come on!
Come on.
Come on, Paul...
Come on...
- Herrmann.
Herrmann.
- No. I got this.
Come on.
- Herrmann!
- I got it! Come on!
- Hey!
Come on.
Let's get him up.
♪
- Kid's doing okay.
The mechanic.
Saved his life.
- Good.
That's good.
God bless.
You know...
Colannino was the first guy
to show up
when we passed the boot
at Molly's for Jones,
you remember that?
- Yeah.
- That guy did stuff
like that always.
- He was a solid guy.
He was a smoke-eater.
- He was facing the wrong way,
Mouch.
When we found him,
he was headed back in
looking for me.
I don't know how
we missed each other.
- You couldn't see.
It happens.
- The kid...
He got caught on a...
a floor jack
or something.
It only took a second
to unhook it.
Maybe half a second.
And when I looked back up...
he wasn't there.
- Hey.
It's one foot in front
of the other, buddy.
You just keep it
moving forward.
We're going to go out there.
We're going to put our gear
in the turn out room.
And we're going to get
a cup of coffee.
We're going to pack up
and head out.
And then we're gonna go
be there for his family.
You hear me?
You hear me, Herrmann?
♪
- All right.
- That's it.
- I'm going to look after
this department
and these people.
I'm going to throw
my hat in the ring for them.
Thanks.
- Hard times.
Tragic day.
There'll be time
for this later,
but I want to let you know
that I'm going to take a run
at the commissioner spot.
Moments like this,
I know that I got to give
to this department
everything I got.
♪
.